
_FRONTISPIECE._


[Illustration]

    Great God! with wonder and with praise
      On all thy works I look!
    But still thy wisdom, power, and grace,
      Shine brightest in thy book.




                                SCRIPTURE

                               HISTORIES;

                                FROM THE

                     _Creation of the World, to the_

                                DEATH OF

                             _JESUS CHRIST_.

                                  WITH

                   A Description of St. Paul’s Church,

                                _LONDON_.

                          Decorated with Cuts.

                               WELLINGTON:
                     Printed by F. Houlston and Son.

                            Price One Penny.




Scripture Histories.




_The Creation of the World._

[Illustration]


In six days God created the whole world out of nothing; that is to say,
the heavens, the earth, fire, air, water, birds, beasts, fish, and every
creeping thing. He made man also out of the dust of the earth, and called
his name _Adam_. And unto _Adam_ he gave power over the fish of the sea,
the fowls of the air, the cattle, and every thing that moved upon the
face of the earth. And _Adam_ was planted in the garden of _Eden_ to
dress it, and keep it, and was perfectly happy there: for he knew no sin.




_Adam and Eve._

[Illustration]


Adam had not been long in the garden of _Eden_, before God Almighty
thought fit to increase his happiness, and considering he was alone,
threw him into a deep sleep, and took out one of his ribs, from which
he formed _Eve_, a more beautiful creature than himself, and allotted
her to be a help-meet for him. _Adam_, at first sight of this new and
lovely companion, cried out with extacy of joy, _Bone art thou of my
bone, and flesh of my flesh_. In this state of bliss they lived but a
short time; for _Satan_, envying their happiness, tempted the woman to
eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, which God, to make trial of
their obedience, had strictly charged them not to touch. The artful
insinuations of the _serpent_, together with the beauty of the fruit,
prevailed on her to transgress the divine law. She tasted, and was
highly delighted, and by her winning behaviour, tempted her husband to
eat also. No sooner had they swallowed down the gilded bait, but their
eyes were opened, they saw they were naked, and, conscious of their
guilt, endeavoured to hide themselves in the garden from the wrath of
their offended Creator; but he soon drove them from their secret recess;
turned them out of their seat of bliss, and denounced thereupon not only
a heavy curse upon the _serpent_, but on them likewise, though with this
ray of mercy in his anger, _that the seed of the woman should bruise the_
serpent’s _head_.




_Noah’s Ark._

[Illustration]


Of all _Adam’s_ sons, _Seth_ was the best. He and his sons called on
the name of the Lord; but in process of time, man indulging himself in
all manner of riot and excess, God repented that he had made him; and
determined to destroy the whole world by an universal flood. _Noah_,
however, who was one of _Seth’s_ posterity, found grace in the eyes of
the Lord. Whereupon God commanded him to build an ark of sufficient bulk
for the reception of himself, his family, and two of each species of
animals. No sooner were they entered than the windows of the heavens were
opened, and it rained heavily for forty days and forty nights. By this
general deluge every living substance was destroyed, except _Noah_, his
wife, his three sons and their wives, and the other creatures that were
admitted with them into the ark. But soon after the deluge ceased, the
earth was stocked with inhabitants by the three sons of _Noah_, viz.
_Shem, Ham, and Japheth_.




_The Tower of Babel._

[Illustration]


Soon after the sons of _Noah_ had replenished the earth with inhabitants,
they assembled together in the fruitful plains of _Shinar_, where they
erected the lofty Tower of _Babel_, and vainly attempted to raise its
walls to the very skies, in hopes to make their names immortal; but
God Almighty soon baffled their impious and ill-concerted project,
confused their language so that they could not understand each other, and
scattered and dispersed them in various tribes all round the world.




_Solomon’s Temple._

[Illustration]


God Almighty having blessed _Solomon_ the son of _David_ (the wisest
of all men) with peace and plenty, he determined to build a magnificent
temple to the Lord on mount _Moriah_. For which purpose he sent to
_Hiram_, king of _Tyre_, his father’s ancient friend, for cedar wood, and
other materials requisite for the accomplishment of his pious design. All
things being duly prepared, he erected a stately fabric three stories
high, and embellished it within and without with a vast variety of fine
carved works, profusely overlaid with gold. As soon as the whole was
complete, _Solomon_ summoned a numerous assembly of _Israelites_, and
with the utmost pomp and splendour, dedicated this glorious building, by
prayer and supplication, to the only true God.




_The Nativity & Passion of our blessed Saviour._

[Illustration]


When _Herod_ reigned in _Judea_, and _Augustus Cæsar_ was emperor of
_Rome_, there dwelt at _Nazareth_, a small city of _Galilee_, in the
_Holy Land_, a Virgin whose name was _Mary_: God Almighty sent _Gabriel_,
one of his favourite angels, down from heaven to visit her, and to reveal
to her the secret purpose of his divine pleasure. _Gabriel_, on his first
approach, addressed her in the following words, _Hail thou that art
highly favoured; the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among women_.
_Mary_ thereupon was troubled and seemed startled at this salutation.
_Gabriel_, however, bid her fear not, for that she had found favour with
God. _Behold_, said he, _thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and
shalt call his name JESUS_. At this she seemed still more surprised;
_How shall this be_, said she, _seeing I know not a man?_ Then _Gabriel_
assured her that the Holy Ghost should overshadow her; and thereupon,
with submission to the divine will, she made the following reply: _Behold
the hand-maid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word_. At which
time the Son of God became incarnate, and was like unto man, sin only
excepted. At thirty years of age he began to preach, and his doctrine was
most holy, and tends only to the glory of God and good of mankind. He
wrought a great number of miracles, which manifested an infinite power
and goodness. His life was perfectly holy. We may find therein an example
of all kinds of virtue. Jesus having lived after this manner among the
Jews, about four years, they then put him to death; but he rose again
the third day after his death; and forty days after his resurrection he
ascended into heaven, from whence he sent the Holy Ghost to his apostles
upon the day of _Pentecost_.




_Christ’s Death._

[Illustration]


The blessed JESUS being condemned by _Pilate_, was crucified at a
place called _Golgotha_, between two thieves. At his death the sun was
darkened, the earth shook, the vail of the temple was rent in twain,
the graves opened, and many people who had been dead appeared to their
friends. This great sacrifice was offered up for out redemption on a
_Friday_, the day of the Jewish passover, and the solemn feast observed
by the christian church called _Good Friday_.




_The Ascension of Christ._

[Illustration]


After our Saviour’s death, his body was embalmed and laid in a sepulchre.
On the third day, however, which was _Sunday_, he arose triumphant from
the grave, and ascended into heaven before the eyes of his blessed
apostles, with whom he promised to be ever present to the end of the
world. He now sits at the right-hand of God the Father Almighty, and
there is continually interceding for us poor sinners, and so will
continue to do, till he shall descend from heaven in all his glory, to
judge both the quick and the dead at the last day.




_Description of St. Paul’s Church._


The foundation of this Cathedral was first laid by _Segbert_, a _Saxon_
king, in the year 610, and afterwards much improved by one _Erkenwald_,
who was the 4th bishop of _London_. The greatest part of it, however,
together with the whole city, was burnt down in the year 1086. One
_Mauritius_, the 35th bishop, began to rebuild it, and in the year 1221
it was completed. It was then 690 feet long, the body of it was 102 feet
in height and 130 in breadth. The area three acres and a half, and the
tower in the middle 520 feet high, exclusive of a ball of copper gilt,
which was nine feet round, whereon was a cross 15 feet and a half high,
and upon that an eagle of copper gilt, which was 4 feet in length. In
this condition it continued till the year 1666, at which unhappy time it
became once more a heap of ruins in the second fire of _London_; but it
was soon after rebuilt at a vast expence, by that ingenious and justly
admired architect the late Sir _Christopher Wren_. No church (that of
St. _Peter’s_ of _Rome_ only excepted) can stand in competition with it.
It is near 500 feet in height. It is principally composed of Portland
stone, and built according to the ancient orders of _Greece_ and _Rome_.
The inside is most beautifully adorned with select historical paintings
by the late celebrated master, Sir _James Thornhill_. The west front,
and the two towers are more beautiful than those of St. _Peter’s_. The
choir is spacious and very grand, and the entrance to it, which is paved
with marble, is exceedingly beautiful. The west door is the object of
particular admiration, and the north and south porticos, as well as the
pavement of the church in general, are all excellent performances.

The expence that attended the erection of this magnificent Cathedral, the
glory of _England_, amounted (as appears by an accurate estimate thereof
laid before the parliament in the year 1721) to no less than eight
hundred and ten thousand pounds.




_BOOKS_

_Printed and sold by F. Houlston & Son, Wellington, Salop._


YOUNG OLIVER; or, the Thoughtless Boy: adorned with Cuts. Price 2d.

AMUSING TALES; or Entertainment for good Boys and Girls: adorned with
Cuts. Price 2d.

The Wisdom of CROP the CONJURER: adorned with Cuts. Price 2d.

The MOVING MARKET; or, Cries of London: decorated with Cuts. Price 2d.

The History of LITTLE KING PIPPIN: adorned with Cuts. Price 2d.

CHRISTMAS AMUSEMENT; a Collection of Riddles for the Entertainment of
good Boys and Girls, on a Winter Evening: with a Cut to each. Price 2d.

The MERRY ANDREW; or the Humours of a Fair: adorned with Cuts, Price 2d.

TRUE COURAGE; or, Heaven never forsakes the Innocent: adorned with Cuts.
Price 1d.

The TRIFLER; or, Pretty Plaything: with numerous Cuts. Price 1d.

The HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT: to which is added, the Life of Master and Miss
Supine: adorned with Cuts. Price 1d.

The History of LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD; and Diamonds and Toads: adorned
with Cuts. Price 1d.

The CRIES OF LONDON: adorned with Cuts. Price 1d.

The PUZZLE-CAP, a Collection of Riddles: adorned with Cuts. Price 1d.

GLEANINGS from Natural History, with a Cut to each Subject. Price 1d.

The PARENTS’ BEST GIFT; containing the Church Catechism: together with
Questions and Answers out of the Holy Scriptures. Price 1d.

Houlstons, Printers.




BOOKS

PRINTED AND SOLD BY

_F. HOULSTON & SON_,

65, Paternoster-Row, London;

and at

WELLINGTON, SALOP.


The HISTORY of SIR RICHARD WHITTINGTON and HIS CAT. Price 1_d._

A short HISTORY of BIRDS and BEASTS. Price 1_d._

WILLIAM and GEORGE. The Rich Boy and the Poor Boy; or, A contented Mind
is the best Feast. Price 1_d._

The WILD-BEAST SHOW. Price 1_d._

NOTHING at ALL. Price 1_d._

The FAITHFUL DOG. A Tale. Price 1_d._

GLEANINGS from NATURAL HISTORY: for the Amusement and Instruction of
Youth. Price 1_d._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Scripture Histories; from the Creation
of the World, to the Death of Jesus Ch, by Unknown

